ψ c. ιυυι cassam

mumdngupmdmgtheflgbtbankottheltffie
(Elem). Hirdestinationwascergowiaonthelestbnssacellit
tovnotwhiehtherenninnsestilltoheseenontheflzttopol

ι hill, rix kilotnetres south ol clermont-ferrand. Vercinfflm
hadbedellthelnldgesbsokendownandkeptmnrcbingalnngthe
omnhnhmpoeventtbettomangenenttmmemstmcthc
melothimeell Caesarhowewermanngedtoevadethevigt'hw
dhisantngonistbyhidingtwooihishgionsinawoodwhilehe
eentontheotherionr‚sosweliedonthycaptivesasto resemble

thewholennmher,inordertodmtheenemyniterthem. 0¹³e ¹

dtheoldbnmdwhiwthepdumwfflmdhg‚mm
repnired3 therestolthearrnyrejoinedtheoommander—byanight
murchuDioCassinslxlgs,§4)tellsns-andthewbolefortt
wastnnsponed to theleltbank. WhenVereingerortxfoundihar
hehedbeenontwitred,hehnstenedbyforoedmarehestocergovi²
rndmblishedhisosmpontheheightsnearthetown. Ca&
lollowedmore leisnrelyandreachedthe place live days aster ΗΞ
μεεαμ otthellllier. The last dafsmnrch wasashort οπως
theremtimeontheaamedayioraoevalryskirmish and iot
Caesa to reconnoitre the town. The position appeared too for·
midnbleioraesanlt3 an investment was all thatwasfeasrhle One
step towards this end was taken when Caesar, hy a night atttda
dislodged the garrison from ι hill et the font of the mountain
(which hill all authorities are agreed in regarding as La Roche
blanche), and established two legions there in a smaller camp,

which he connected with the original one by two uenches 12 teet

wide, so as to secure a passage between the two. This movemmt

had the effect oi rhntting off the enemy honr the Aaron, the only

suurn on the south side ol Gergovia, and at the same time limiting

their freedonr oi foraging.

While Caesar was thus occupied at Gergovia, the Aedui were
being drawn into the national movement. Convictolitavis had
been bribed by the Arvernians and hed concerted a plot with some
young noblernen, chief among whom were Litaviccus and his
brothers lt was arranged that Litaviccus should have the com·
mand oi 10,ooo suot-soldiers who had been demanded by Caesar
from the Aedui (34, 5 1), and that his brothers should hurry in
advance to Caesar. When this soree was within thirty miles ot
Gergovia, Litaviccus informed the men thet all the Aeduan nobility‚

 

